---
title: "Anti-vibration mats"
date: 2023-05-26T21:00:00+02:00
authors: ["Mikołaj Wilczek"]
---
If you're a 3D printing enthusiast, you know how noisy these machines can be. The constant whirring, beeping, and vibrating can quickly become a nuisance, especially if you're working in a shared space. 
Fortunately, there can be an easy solution to reduce the noise generated by your 3D printer: anti-vibration mats.

### How do they work
Anti-vibration mats are made of materials that absorb vibrations, reducing the amount of noise that the printer generates. They are typically made of rubber or foam and come in a variety of sizes and thicknesses to accommodate different types of printers.

### Pricing
One of the best things about using an anti-vibration mat is that it's an easy and affordable way to make your 3D printer much quieter. Anti-vibration mats are widely available online and can be purchased for as little as $10 (~ 40 PLN). 

### How to choose the correct one
One thing to keep in mind when shopping for an anti-vibration mat is that some mats can have a strong odour, especially when they're new (or have poor quality). While this smell should not be harmful, it can be unpleasant and may linger for several days or even weeks. Therefore, it's worth finding a mat that does not smell too much. Read comments before buying, especially from 3D print fans.

### They do not last forever
Another thing to consider when using an anti-vibration mat is that it may lose some of its effectiveness over time. This is because the materials used to make the mat can compress and wear down with use. It's a good idea to replace your mat when you start noticing greater noise.

### Recheck printer before buying
Before investing in an anti-vibration mat for your printer, it's essential to thoroughly check the printer itself. Loose screws or misplaced elements can contribute to excessive noise and vibrations. Take the time to inspect the printer and tighten any loose screws or parts. Ensure that all components are properly aligned and secured in their designated places. Additionally, make sure the printer is placed on a stable surface, such as a sturdy desk, to minimise unnecessary vibrations. By addressing these issues beforehand, you can ensure that the anti-vibration mat will effectively reduce the noise and vibrations, providing you with a quieter printing experience.

### Not only for a 3d printer
Anti-vibration mats can be used for a wide range of devices that generate noise from movement, not just 3D printers. For example, you can use an anti-vibration mat for your washing machine or dryer to reduce the noise they make during use. You can also use them under heavy machinery or equipment that vibrates a lot, such as power tools or generators.

## Conclusion
In conclusion, using an anti-vibration mat is a simple and effective way to reduce the noise generated by your 3D printer. When shopping for it, look for one that doesn't have a strong odour and tighten all screws to maintain its effectiveness. With an anti-vibration mat, you can enjoy a quieter workspace and a more pleasant 3D printing experience.

P.S. I used ChatGPT for making this article. I provided the article's key points and redacted the output :)
